MidJourney’s New V5B Algorithm Is Here — It’s Faster and Cheaper
MidJourney’s New V5B Algorithm Is Here — It’s Faster and Cheaper
Image by 
Jim Clyde Monge
It’s only been a week since MidJourney released the V5 algorithm, which has improved from its predecessor in terms of photorealism, dynamic range, stylistic range, and more.

Today, MidJourney dropped a brand new algorithm that is mainly focused on performance improvements.

To be clear: MidJourney is not officially calling it V5B; they simply refer to it as the “new V5” algorithm and call the previous model V4A. For simplicity, I am going to refer to the new V5 as V5B.

What’s New?
The new algorithm brings some sweet perks, including:

The new algorithm is twice as fast
This also means half the cost (in terms of fast hours)
There is little or no loss in quality
It should also solve all the GPU shortages
Check out these jaw-dropping sample images created with V5B.

I added the text prompt in case you’re interested in recreating them.

Sample images
Prompt: cute, japanese, asian, kawaii, 8k, 18, kimono, girl, frontal shot, ultra detailed, ultra realistic, 85mm lens, f/1.8, accent lighting, portrait, face, extreme close up, public street, day, skinny, hair ponytail, pastel, blonde, goddess — ar 16:9 — s 1000 — iw .5 — v 5 — q 2 — v 5 — s 250 — v 5

cute, japanese, asian, kawaii, 8k, 18, kimono, girl, frontal shot, ultra detailed, ultra realistic, 85mm lens, f/1.8, accent lighting, portrait, face, extreme close up, public street, day, skinny, hair ponytail, pastel, blonde, goddess — ar 16:9 — s 1000 — iw .5 — v 5 — q 2 — v 5 — s 250 — v 5
Image by 
Jim Clyde Monge
Prompt: Betta Fish, galaxies, spirals, space, nebulae, stars, smoke, iridescent, intricate detail, octane render, 8k, — q 2 — ar 16:9 — uplight — v 5 — s 250

Prompt: Betta Fish, galaxies, spirals, space, nebulae, stars, smoke, iridescent, intricate detail, octane render, 8k, — q 2 — ar 16:9 — uplight — v 5 — s 250
Image by 
Jim Clyde Monge
Prompt: abandoned wet small fluffy cat staying on the street in dark raining foggy 1800’s london city, rich colors, realitic, cinematic — no latte art — ar 16:9 — v 5 — s 750 — v 5 — s 250

Prompt: abandoned wet small fluffy cat staying on the street in dark raining foggy 1800’s london city, rich colors, realitic, cinematic — no latte art — ar 16:9 — v 5 — s 750 — v 5 — s 250
Image by 
Jim Clyde Monge
What do you think of these images?

Final Thoughts
Overall, MidJourney V5B may not be a ground-breaking update, but it’s evident that the creative AI landscape is set for a thrilling ride.

In fact, you may have recently seen the viral photo of the Pope rocking a bougie puffer jacket.

Surprise! That image was created using MidJourney.

While it’s undoubtedly impressive, this also highlights the potential dangers of such advancements. It’s becoming increasingly difficult to differentiate between real and AI-generated images, making it easier than ever to fall for fake images.

So, as we marvel at the astonishing capabilities of AI, we must also remain vigilant and aware of its potential pitfalls.

Stay up to date with the latest news and updates in the creative AI space — follow the Generative AI publication.
